# giggle-billbiubiu-holder

This is a lightweight application based on egg.js.

## Overview

This application is the Server side of [giggle-billbiubiu](https://github.com/Eriasuitor/giggle-billbiubiu), a book-keeping app. **Many grammatical mistakes will be found in this document.**

## Database Design

All tables and columns witch type is `JSON` include additional field as follow:

column/field name | type | description
:-|:-|:-
status | ENUM(0, 1, 2, 3) | 0-synchronized, 1-modified, 2-deleted, 3-new,
remark | VARCHAR(255) | wallet remark,
createdBy | VARCHAR(32) | create user
createdAt | DATE | create date
lastEditedBy | VARCHAR(32) | last edit user
lastEditedAt | DATE | last edit date

### Table `book`

The value of id will generated automatically.

column name | type | description | note
:-|:-|:-|:-
id | INTEGER | book id | primary key, auto increment
name | VARCHAR(16) | book name
wallets | JSON | all wallets
bills | JSON | bill record
transfers | JSON | transfer record
incomes | JSON | income record

#### Column `wallets`

An array of json as follow included in this column. Wallet's id generated by app because it will be used by others like `bill` after created, will be modified by Server if conflict with other's. As a lightweight application, the foreigner key in Column `bills`, `transfers` and `incomes` reference wallet id is not considered.

field name | type | description
:-|:-|:-
id | integer | uniq id
name | VARCHAR(16) | wallet name
balance | integer | wallet balance
color | varchar(16) | the color of this wallet, used in app

#### Column `bills`

An array of json as follow included in this column. This id will increase based on maximum in database.

field name | type | description
:-|:-|:-
id | integer | uniq id
walletId | VARCHAR(16) | wallet id
amount | INTEGER | the amount to be costed
date | Date | the date when consume

#### Column `transfers`

An array of json as follow included in this column. This id will increase based on maximum in database.

field name | type | description
:-|:-|:-
id | integer | uniq id
fromWalletId | VARCHAR(16) | wallet Id to consume
toWalletId | VARCHAR(16) | wallet Id to add
amount | INTEGER | the amount to be transfer
date | Date | the date when transfer

#### Column `incomes`

An array of json as follow included in this column. This id will increase based on maximum in database.

field name | type | description
:-|:-|:-
id | integer | uniq id
walletId | VARCHAR(16) | wallet Id to add
amount | INTEGER | the amount to add
date | Date | the date when add

## Synchronize Rule

`Wallets`, `bills`, `transfers`, `incomes` is covered when synchronize a book. 

All bill, transfer and income records and wallets have their own field called status shown as above. records with status 0 will be ignored because it may be modified by collaborator after last synchronization, 1 will used to override the record existed in database after add id if not existed, 2 will be removed from databases.

It's worth noting that the field amount of all wallets will be updated after real-time calculation during traversing the records above contrasting with latest records in database. 

## Lock Mechanism

Lock mechanism is required because the update value is dependent on the query value when synchronize records. That is only one person is allowed to synchronize a specific book at the same time.

This application use [async-lock](https://www.npmjs.com/package/async-lock) to lock code block with `bookId`. Because the lock key is related to `bookId`, there are only little effect on efficiency. 